Department News | NEWS & ANNOUNCEMENTS Computer Science Holds Annual CS Expo for 2015 Nov 18, 2015 Computer Science Department held its fourth annual CS Expo in The Center for Global Engagement here on FSU’s main campus. The CS Expo is one of the department’s key annual events for both student and alumni, that takes place to showcase emerging technological projects, encourage innovative dialogue, and lets everyone exchange experiences in the world of tech. read more FSU Professor Weikuan Yu Receives a Research Grant from Lawrence Livermore National Lab Oct 12, 2015 Dr. Weikuan Yu, from the Department of Computer Science at Florida State University, was awarded a grant of $72K from Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory for his most recent project on data-intensive systems research. read more FSU Professor David Whalley Awarded NSF Project Grant Oct 3, 2015 Professor David Whalley has been awarded a new NSF grant for his project “Sphinx: Combining Data and Instruction Level Parallelism through Demand Driven Execution of Imperative Programs.” read more Professor Jie Yang Receives NSF and ARO/Stevens Grants Sep 27, 2015 Jie Yang, assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science, has been granted a four-year, $200,000 National Science Foundation CAREER Award for his project, “Exploiting Fine-grained WiFi Signals for Wellbeing Monitoring.” He was also granted with a one year ARO/Stevens grant for his project entitled, “Making Inferences of Physical Properties to Enhance Wireless Security.” read more Computer Science Earns NSA Centers of Academic Excellence Award for Critical Infrastructure Protection Sep 18, 2015 The Computer Science Department was awarded a $291,000 grant through NSA’s National Centers of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance / Cyber Defense (CAE/IAE) Research and Education program read more Computer Science Professor Leads Multi-University Ebola Research Team Jun 23, 2015 Associate Professor of Computer Science Ashok Srinivasan has been tapped to lead a research team with the goal of finding new ways to decrease the risk of Ebola being spread through air travel. read more Professor Zhi Wang wins NSF CAREER Award Jun 8, 2015 FSU’s Computer Science faculty member Zhi Wang recently received the privilege of being awarded this year’s National Science Foundation CAREER Award. read more Weikuan Yu joins Computer Science Jun 5, 2015 The Department of Computer Science is pleased to welcome Dr. Weikuan Yu as the newest faculty member to join our roster. read more Gary Tyson selected Harris Endowed Professor May 3, 2015 Dr. Gary S. Tyson is the recipient of the 2015-2018 Harris Professorship in the Computer Science Department at Florida State University. read more Sudhir Aggarwal elected Mainline Information Systems Endowed Professor May 1, 2015 Former Department Chair Dr.  Sudhir Aggarwal was elected this year as the Mainline Information Systems endowed professor. This nomination carries with it a monetary award of $6,000 to be allocated toward future research uses. read more « Older Entries Next Entries »