Position Openings | POSITION OPENINGS Graduate Assistantship – Open Until Fill – Fall 2018 Aug 13, 2018 The Computer Science (CS) and School of Information (iSchool) seek an outstanding graduate assistant to work 20 hours for the Fall 2018. The student’s responsibilities will be to collaborate with the research team, to maintain and develop a research server, and to develop game-based scenarios under professor’s guidance. The candidate is required to have good communication and writing skills, and know how to set up current social media, preferably with developer experience in Facebook, Google+, and twitter, etc. The candidate must be willing to learn various development platforms. Some knowledge of scripting languages (e.g., perl, php 7.1, JavaScript, etc.), MySQL database, and text mining techniques would be necessary. Interested applicants should email their resume to Dr. Ho at smho@fsu.edu. Review of applications begins immediately and continues until the position is filled. Postdoctoral Researcher Aug 13, 2018 The Computer Architecture and System Laboratory (CASTL) at Florida State University has a postdoctoral researcher position on large-scale parallel computing and data analytics. This is a full time, two-year, renewable position. The successful candidate must have earned a PhD in computer science or related disciplines and at least one first-author research publication in a reputable systems conference or journal. To apply, visit: http://hr.fsu.edu , click Job Opportunities , then enter 43971 as the job ID. Questions regarding the position can be directed to Prof. Weikuan Yu ( yuw@cs.fsu.edu ). RAship opportunity for fall 2018 Aug 8, 2018 Dr. Aggarwal is seeking students for a 10 hour (possibly 20 hour) RA position, currently for the Fall semester 2018 only. The project relates to targeted data extraction from mobile phones. Good programming skills are essential but he is also looking for students with interest in forensics / security. Preferred programming skills would be  (1) iOS development (Swift programming); (2) Java Programming and (3) Python programming. The project is using machine learning techniques for identification / categorization so experience with ML environments, tools, and techniques would also give priority. A selected student should also be able to understand existing code implementations and make modifications as needed. If you believe you can contribute to this project then first email Dr. Aggarwal a resume and he will contact you as follow up. Include information about your skills, GPA, etc.  Also indicate in your email if you currently (in fall) have TA funding from the department as some existing TA funding would be preferred. Sudhir Aggarwal Mainline Information Systems Professor Department of Computer Science Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Tel: 850-644-0164 sudhir@cs.fsu.edu